handbook page explaing policy that all new internal APIs must be dervied from protobuf structs (#51116)
sourcegraph/sourcegraph: doc/dev/background-information/gRPC.md

# Overview 

> New internal APIs must have both gRPC and REST implementations to reduce the maintenance burden. The REST implementation should use the c[canonical JSON representation of the generated protobuf structs](https://protobuf.dev/programming-guides/proto3/#json) in the HTTP body for arguments and responses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
New internal APIs must have both gRPC and REST implementations so we can provide a grace period for customers. The REST implementation should use the [canonical JSON representation of the generated protobuf structs](https://protobuf.dev/programming-guides/proto3/#json) in the HTTP body for arguments and responses.
```

## simple example 

> The following example demonstrates how to implement a simple service in Go that provides both gRPC and REST APIs, using the  [canonical JSON representation of the generated Protobuf structs](https://protobuf.dev/programming-guides/proto3/#json). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example demonstrates how to implement a simple service in Go that provides both gRPC and REST APIs, using the [canonical JSON representation of the generated Protobuf structs](https://protobuf.dev/programming-guides/proto3/#json). 
```

> Note that the Go service uses [google.golang.org/protobuf/encoding/protojson](https://google.golang.org/protobuf/encoding/protojson) to Marshall and Unmarshall Protobuf structs to/from JSON. The standard "encoding/json" package should **not** be used here: it doesn't correctly operate on protobuf structs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the Go service uses [google.golang.org/protobuf/encoding/protojson](https://google.golang.org/protobuf/encoding/protojson) to Marshal and Unmarshal Protobuf structs to/from JSON. The standard "encoding/json" package should **not** be used here: it doesn't correctly operate on protobuf structs. 
```

Author: Yeah, there are some specifics for how to handle certain types in https://protobuf.dev/programming-guides/proto3/#json

timestamps are a concrete example:

```proto
syntax = "proto3";

import "google/protobuf/timestamp.proto";

message Example {
  string name = 1;
  int32 age = 2;
  google.protobuf.Timestamp created_at = 3;
}

```

If we have this struct:

```go
example := &examplepb.Example{
		Name:      "John Doe",
		Age:       30,
		CreatedAt: timestamppb.New(time.Now()),
	}

```

We could see a difference in the output (note that the spec mandates RFC-3339 formatted timestamps):

```jsonc
encoding/json output: {"name":"John Doe","age":30,"createdAt":{"seconds":1646841234,"nanos":123456789}}
protojson output: {"name":"John Doe","age":30,"createdAt":"2022-03-09T12:34:56.123456789Z"}
```

# Overview

New internal APIs must have both gRPC and REST implementations so that we can provide a grace period for customers. The
REST implementation should use
the [canonical JSON representation of the generated protobuf structs](https://protobuf.dev/programming-guides/proto3/#json)
in the HTTP body for arguments and responses.

> We expect to only have to maintain both implementations for the 5.1.X release in June. Afterwards, only the gRPC API will be used and we can delete the redundant REST implementations.

Reviewer 2: Would it make sense to also note that there are some internal apis that don't make sense to migrate to gRPC so there would still be some left over REST implementations to maintain ?

Author: Good point! I modified the first section to mention this.
